# README

## What's this?

It is software for fragment analysis (MLPA, QF-PCR etc.) data processing.

## Features

FragalyseQt version 0.2+ supports assays with up to 8 different dyes used simultaneously,
selective channel hiding, non-Latin run names and can correctly handle damaged files,
exporting peaks locations, areas, FWHM's and channel names in CSV for any *.FSA files and
export in CSV internal analysis data for *.FSA files generated by ABI 3500 and SeqStudio
series equipment. Peaks areas are calculated assuming they are Gaussian peaks.

## What file formats are supported?

Currently, only *.FSA files are supported. I've tried to add SCF files support, but SCF
supports only 4 fluorescence channels and can't store information about size standard used
for current assay. This renders SCF file format quite obsolete and unusable for modern
assays and thus, this program won't support it.

But, anyway, if you wish to add support for any file format, you may help to implement it
by sending patches.

## What's the license of FragalyseQt?

GNU General Public License version 3.

## How to get it working at *ubuntu/Debian/SUSE/macOS?

Install python 3.6+ and git in any way that is comfortable to you. After this, install PyQt5,
pyqthgraph, scipy, biopython and charset-normalizer. I would recommend you to use pip as universal
way to install these things. Afterwards just download and run FragalyseQt:

git clone https://github.com/Dorif/fragalyseqt && cd fragalyseqt/ && python3 main.py

If you are using something RHEL-based - read next chapters and may the luck be with you.

## How to get it working at RHEL/Oracle 8+?

Prepare enviroment to run FragalyseQt:

sudo yum install python-qt5 git && pip install pyqtgraph charset-normalizer scipy biopython

Download and run FragalyseQt:

git clone https://github.com/Dorif/fragalyseqt && cd fragalyseqt/ && python3 main.py

## How to get it working at RHEL/CentOS/Oracle/Scientific 7?

These systems have no PyQt5 in their repos, nor you can install PyQt5 at these systems freshly
installed. To install PyQt5 you should first update pip and clean pip cache:

sudo pip3 install --upgrade pip && rm -rf .pip/cache/

After that install packages needed for FragalyseQt to work:

pip3 install pyqt5 pyqtgraph charset-normalizer scipy biopython && sudo yum install git

Download and run FragalyseQt:

git clone https://github.com/Dorif/fragalyseqt && cd fragalyseqt/ && python3 main.py

## About test files origin.

Files from ABI 3100 are from NCBI OSIRIS test file set. NCBI OSIRIS is piblic domain software.
NCBI OSIRIS source is available at: https://github.com/ncbi/osiris
NCBI OSIRIS home page: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/osiris/

Files from ABI 310 are from MLPAinter project, licensed under GNU GPL v3.
MLPAinter source code is available at: https://code.google.com/archive/p/mlpainter/
MLPAinter publication full text is available at: https://bmcbioinformatics.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1471-2105-11-67

SeqStudio, ABI 3500 and RapidHIT ID v1.x files are obtained by myself and contain no other persons data.

Nanophore-05 files are provided by Dmitrii Romaniuk, ISB, Moscow and contain no personal data.

Superyears Honor 1616 files are provided by Vadim Ponkratov, "Litolab", Berdsk, Russia and contain no personal data.
